The Joe Rogan experience. Tell me about your new movie. Let's leave it at that.
Um, it's called motherless Brooklyn.
Uh it's. It was, you know,
it was kind of a big swing cause I wrote it and I produced it and this
is the first time you've done that. Directed it. Um, I know I,
I produced and directed the,
the first movie I directed is keeping the faith with it's. Um,
it's me and Ben Stiller play a rabbi and a priest who were best friends and
they, and they both fall for the same girl. Did you ever see that one? No,
it didn't. It's funny. Yeah, you'd like it. Um, Ben is hilarious and it, uh,
that was obviously later, um, that was a later, uh,
kinda movie, but it was an, um,
I've lived in New York there almost 30 years and I like making movies in New
York a lot. That was pretty light when this one is more, um,
this takes place in the fifties, in New York and it's kind of, um,
it's got to Chinatown at lake confidential, kind of a noir, um,
bent to it. It's a, it's a mystery,
a murder mystery of kind of that leads into some of the stuff that happened in
New York in the fifties. That is hard to believe. Um,
because New York was New York was run by, um,
an, uh, it was run by basically a Darth Vader,
like figure who was never elected to public office. And Pete, excuse me,
people thought he was the parks commissioner of New York,
but he was for N from 1930 to 1968.
He had uncontested authoritarian power over New York city in New York state.
And he made every significant decision about the way that the modern
infrastructure of New York was built, where the roads went,
where the bridges were built, what was torn down, where the projects were built.
He, um,
and he was very racist and he baked like really
discriminatory things that almost sound like conspiracy theory.
They're so wild and intense into the decisions he made.
He was responsible for the Dodgers leaving Brooklyn and going to LA.
And nobody knows this. Like you think of New York is the great,
that's like the great egalitarian melting pot city where democracy works,
except that it was run by a total autocrat for 38 years. Yeah. For,
for he he's largely,
it's broadly accepted that no mayor or governor of New York could do a single
thing without his say.
So from basically about 1930 to about 1968,
how.
Is that even possible? And how come no one knows about this. How did you.
Find that? Well, people do there's, there's, there's huge.
Like in one of the big, um, burns brothers, documentaries about New York,
there's a whole, literally, almost a whole episode on him. Um,
there's a great book about him, uh, that won the Pulitzer prize and there's, uh,
his name was Robert Moses and he, you know,
there's Robert Moses state beach in New York. And,
but literally people think he was the parks commissioner, but he was,
and he was like, can Skywalker. I, he, he was like a Jedi Knight.
He was a big liberal,
progressive believer in progressive change and government reform.
And in his early years he got crushed by Tammany hall and,
and the power brokers. And he went, he went, dark, went completely. Yeah.
That's not the most imposing picture of him that you've got up.
There's other ones.
That's one of the ones of him find one of the ones of him standing in front of
his models.
There's famous ones of him that looks like a man actually to the left of that.
And keep going to the left of that. Um,
cause there's a scene in our movie where Alec Baldwin is literally like that.
Yeah. That Alec Baldwin plays a character. Who's based on him,
inspired by him. I should say. It's not at all in my film.
It's not the true story, but yeah, there you go. Um, and um,
but I think this idea, I was really interested in this idea, you know,
what's great about Chinatown as a film is, um, it's mostly sexy.
The, you, you don't know what the hell is going on in that movie.
Like until the, until 20 minutes before the end,
you have absolutely no idea really what's going on in that movie.
But it's just sexy. It's like the music is amazing.
The photography's incredible.
The other actors are like adult and real and he's he's Nicholson, right?
The hook is like, Nicholson is so cool. You really will kind of follow him.
You'll watch the way he deals with anything. And just,
you're just laughing and enjoying it. Right. But underneath it all,
when you're done, you go, did that, is that true?
Did LA is LA basically built on stolen water?
Is that like the like LA is original sin is that people
made fortunes,
the valley was just farms and they stole the water from up north and, you know,
rig the game and made these gigantic fortunes by irrigating San Fernando valley.
And you, you, you come away with like,
you come away with an awareness that like the California,
story's not exactly what it's cracked up to be. Right. It's,
there's some big crimes underneath it. And, and the people who, and,
and that in that movie, it's like, yeah, the people ripped everybody off.
They fake droughts. They,
they created fortune cells and the type of people who did that also raped their
daughters. Literally. That's like what that movie is about. It's um, and it,
and it's pretty bleak. It's like, you can't make a difference.
You cannot change anything like any,
if you try the person you're trying to help is going to end up with a bullet
through her eye, dead on the steering wheel. Like it's,
it's a really dark movie and people forget that. Cause you just, oh,
Nicholson fade Dunaway. It's like, nah, that's a, that's a really,
really bleak movie. But I love, I love the idea that,
that you can do things where like the F the pleasure of it
is like the pleasure of movies it's grown up.
It's kind of what we've been talking about. It's like,
like if you said to most people, if you showed Chinatown and most critics today,
they'd go long, boring, whatever. It's like, you want to say, off, like,
off. Like what, what is it that you w who, why are you,
why are you assuming people can't handle grown up? You know what I mean? And,
and I think that,
that I really dig those things where you go through the movie starts,
you look at it and you go, this looks really good. This looks really grown up.
This is big. The actors are like,
like adult and authoritative. The dialogue's great. The music is great.
It's hypnotic. And your brain just goes, I don't know what's going on.
I don't care. I'm bought in. And then,
and if there's a character in it that you can hook into you float,
you float through those movies, you just kind of go, where's this going?
What's going on? Oh, man, that guy who she's great. He's great. Wow.
Like this is just all juicy and great.
And by the end you get somewhere and you kind of go, I'll be damned.
That actually was about big things. That those things really happen. You know,
that's, I really dig those movies. I dig Chinatown LA confidential.
Um, I think the godfather works that way. The Godfather's about immigrants.
You know, it's about immigrants normalizing in America. You don't,
it's like, that's a long movie. You just settle in for that moment,
your brain settles in and just goes, this just couldn't be better.
I couldn't be happier to be watching this scene after scene,
after scene that night. And I wanted to make, I wanted to try,
I wanted to try to make one of those, you know, uh, myself,
like I wanted to try to, to, um,
make one of those, because I don't, it's, it's cliche to say, like,
they don't make those anymore, but it, but I think, you know,
they were always hard. It's not like they were easy once and now they're hard.
They're all, they're always hard. But I,
I would look at people like Warren Beatty, he made reds, you know,
which is one of the great movies from that era.
Even like spike Lee doing do the right thing.
I don't know if you remember when that movie hit. It was massive.
It was a huge deal to me. I was like 18 or 19. Yeah.
I saw that movie and I was like, he just rewrote the game,
like this kid who the hell is that he wrote it. He directed it. He acted in it.
And he got public enemy to do the music.
It's about his neighborhood in New York, but it's about like race in America.
It's like, oh my God,
that guy just took like a huge swing and connected on like
every level. And it didn't even give you some BS kind of like,
don't worry. It's going to be okay. In the end,
it was like Martin Luther king says violence is not the way Malcolm
X says. Sometimes it's the only rational response. What do you think?
You know what I mean? It was so ballsy. It was so ballsy that movie.
And I think like after awhile, it's sorta, like,
I just started feeling like, well, you know, I don't really need to gig.
I might as well. I've worked with a lot of great people.
I've worked with some pretty great directors, including spike.
And I was kind of like that in New York a long time.
And I just thought it was really weird. No one knew that story. And I was like,
I'm going to try to make one about this, you know,